# Optimization_Algorithm_for_the_Flowshop_Problem

Keywords: Flow-shop scheduling problem, greedy, metaheuristic, hill climbing, simulated annealing, genetic.

Abstract: The FLOW-SHOP problem is an NP-HARD problem derived from the optimal scheduling problem, which means that even for small-scale problems, the current state-of-the-art algorithms cannot find the optimal solution. The FLOW-SHOP problem describes the task of processing n jobs on m machines, seeking the shortest time required for processing and the corresponding job processing sequence under the constraints of given procedures and the condition that "only one job can be processed on a machine at the same time." This paper presents three solutions to the FLOW-SHOP problem. Solution one uses only a hill climbing algorithm to find a relatively optimal solution. Solution two combines the hill climbing algorithm from the greedy algorithm with the simulated annealing algorithm, a metaheuristic algorithm, to find a better solution. Solution three uses a genetic algorithm to find a relatively optimal solution and attempts to optimize the genetic algorithm by combining it with the hill climbing algorithm. The final results show that the hill climbing algorithm can find a relatively optimal solution to some extent. Compared to the hill climbing algorithm, the hill climbing algorithm based on the simulated annealing algorithm has a greater probability of finding a relatively optimal solution but incurs higher computational costs. The genetic algorithm can also find a relatively optimal solution, and its runtime cost is similar to that of the hill climbing algorithm based on the simulated annealing algorithm. However, as the number of jobs and machines increases, the results obtained by the genetic algorithm are slightly worse than those of solution two. The genetic algorithm with hill climbing algorithm optimization can converge faster and achieve better results than using the genetic algorithm alone, but it significantly increases the runtime overhead.

